# ALONE IN PARADISE

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ingrid sat up straight, her hands folded on her lap, waiting quietly to present today’s lecture. She was well prepared, as she had always been well prepared during her thirty-three years imparting knowledge on marine micropaleontology to undergrads at the University of Hawaii. Today’s lecture, though, would pertain not to marine micropaleontology but a subject many times greater in scope, infinitely more complex, extravagantly more nuanced; one she’d studied exhaustively from her earliest childhood, for which she was universally acclaimed the world’s foremost authority.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Several hours earlier, her nephew Michael awoke in her guest bedroom. It was only five a.m., but he couldn’t sleep. It was already eight in California. He wouldn’t be adjusted to Hawaii time until he was already back home, so he didn’t try. He lingered for a while, then got out of bed, reminded again of this glorious tropical climate, so mild that his aunt’s house was innocent of solid walls, requiring only louvered wood blinds that allowed the trade winds to drift freely through the rooms.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He walked through the empty place, so airy, so beautifully decorated with exotic artifacts from across the Pacific: basketry, tribal carvings, religious relics from Borneo, Malaysia, New Guinea. He stepped down into the lanai and gazed through the screened walls. From this vantage point, he could see much of the Aina Haina neighborhood, and off in the distance, maybe a mile away, a sliver of blue Pacific through the palm trees.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He sat at the little table and punched home on his cell phone. Deborah answered, they spoke for a few minutes, just touching bases, then both had things to do. They would catch up again tonight. He slipped on his sandals, locked the front door, negotiated the many steps down the hillside to Lawelawe Street, then strode pleasantly through the exotic neighborhood, along W. Hind Street, taking in these Hawaiian homes, so different from Northern California; simpler, manicured golf-green lawns, lush tropical plants, everywhere palm trees.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Under a high pale sky and a few thin clouds – every local he passed, all Asians, carried an umbrella – he reached the Aina Haina Shopping Center, walked past the Rainbow Market and the little shops along the strip mall, all deserted at this hour. At the far end of the lot he stepped inside the Sunshine Café, bought a bran muffin, banana, hard-boiled egg and a newspaper.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;With his bag of food, he retraced his steps along W. Hind, up the hill to Lawelawe Street and the many steps to Aunt Ingrid’s house. He returned to his chair in the lanai, ate his little breakfast, read the paper, and from time to time took in the magnificent view. He pondered how wonderful it would be to live here but knew he would never leave the mainland.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked at his cell phone. Nine-thirty. He got up and cleaned the table, retrieved clean clothes from the back room, shaved, took a shower, and by ten fifteen again moved down the steps to the street, but this time got into the little rental car – a dark blue P.T. Cruiser – and navigated down hill to the Kalanianaole Highway, then right toward Honolulu. At Waialae Avenue he veered off and glided under the highway, turned left onto Kilauea Avenue and right into the parking lot, parked and went inside Kahala Mall.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He’d come to love this mall, now familiar with all its nooks and crannies, the upscale shops, clothing stores, movie theatres, and kiosks. He was quickly forgetting his guilt for being a Caucasian in a place of Asians, and a mainlander, a _howlie_. We live in a modern world, he told himself. The locals don’t dwell on the fact their people were conquered and subdued by white men like him. Ancient history. Enjoy your day. Much aloha.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He moved leisurely through the main corridor, veered with it to the right, then came to his favorite stop of all: Starbuck’s. As he did each day, he bought a vente cappuccino for himself, a vente latte for Ingrid, and several pastries to be divvied up between them. Ingrid no longer worried about calories or food quality. She just ate whatever tasted good. He put it all in a carry-cart and moved back through the throngs, past the movie theatre, the clothing shops, the T-Mobile store, and out to the car.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It was amazing what an expert he’d become on Oahu’s topography. A month ago when he’d been here with Deborah, he would get lost, stray into blind alleys, take out-of-the-way routes everywhere he went. Now he was an ace, wasting no time, moving smoothly via every short cut, knowing which lane to use and when to merge. He got back onto Waialae Avenue, up the ramp to high ground, past blocks of modest stucco buildings to 10th Avenue, then right into a rolling suburban landscape. He followed the long, meandering road up the hill to Palolo Hospice, parked on the street out front, climbed the stairs and stepped inside.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Palolo Hospice was a one-time private residence, a typically simple Hawaiian wood-framed structure. The front door opened to a spacious living area with hardwood floors, several couches, and a TV set. To the left and to the rear, four rooms had been converted into patients’ quarters, each with an exterior window, closet, and bathroom. To the right, an open-air kitchen where Sharon, in her white nurse’s uniform, was cleaning the counter.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Good morning!” Michael chirped.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Good morning,” she responded. “How are you today?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I’m fine,” he said. “I mean, how could I not be? I’m in paradise.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sharon smiled a wide, homely smile, exposing long, uneven teeth. “Isn’t that the truth?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After several more pleasantries, Sharon said Ingrid was awake and expecting him.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He tapped on her door, then eased it open.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Good morning!” he chirped again. “How are you?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Good morning,” she rasped.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ingrid had a square, somber face, a bit weathered and lined, sad dark eyes, and straight black hair cut into a bob. He set her latte on the tray in front of her.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Thank you,” she said. “Oh, it smells good. Is it a latte?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yes,” he smiled. “And a bear claw.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Thank you,” she purred, assessing the sweet confection before her. “Mmm, that looks sooo good.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They consumed their little breakfast, sipped their coffees, and talked about this and that. How did you sleep? It’s beautiful again today. But then, it’s always beautiful here. Did you hear about so and so on the news?
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When they ran out of small talk, there was a brief lull. Then Ingrid, sitting up with her hands folded carefully in her lap, began rather formally. “Yesterday you asked me about my mother. I didn’t want to start in on that topic at that point because it was getting late, but today I’d like to talk about her.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Okay,” Michael said, sensing a bit of awkwardness. “That would be nice.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sitting in a chair next to the bed, he gazed at her and waited.

\#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ingrid was, for all intents and purposes, Michael’s aunt. Originally, she was his first cousin-once-removed, or his mother’s first cousin. Then, many years ago, Michael’s maternal grand-father died about the time Ingrid’s mother died, leaving Michael’s grand-mother a widow and Ingrid’s father a widower. In the European tradition – all involved were German immigrants – the widowed grandmother married her widowed brother-in-law, and with that, Ingrid was officially no longer Michael’s first cousin-once-removed, but his aunt, or step aunt. Either way, to avoid confusion, he’d always referred to her simply as his aunt.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And she had stage-four lung cancer, spread to the bones and brain. Six or eight months previously, she’d wanted some landscaping done in her backyard, which included moving several small boulders, and hired some workers. But she got impatient and tried to budge one of the boulders herself, just to move it a few feet. But in doing so, she tweaked her back. She assumed the discomfort would subside if she took it easy for a few days but it hung on stubbornly and even got worse. She went to her doctor who prescribed stretching exercises and a mild muscle relaxant. Then she caught a chest cold she couldn’t shake. The doctor said it was pneumonia and prescribed a week in bed.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The chest cold and pneumonia eventually improved but the back pain got worse. Word got to the California relatives – she had no one in Hawaii – that Ingrid was battling some really serious back pain. Home remedies were recommended, and insistence that she demand her doctors research the matter more carefully and provide some sort of better diagnosis, and some relief.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In March, the pain became so severe she went to the emergency room. She was sent home with pain pills. A week later she was brought in again, on a stretcher. Tests were done. This time the diagnosis was more definitive and dire. Michael’s mother and two of his sisters rushed to her aid, clamoring around her at the hospital. They would be her advocates, assuring – insisting – that she be given the best of care, and that there be no more waiting until it’s too late.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But when Ingrid was told her diagnosis, she quickly decided not to pursue further treatments but go into hospice care and die peacefully, without tubes, without chemo.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But there are options! There are treatments that could reduce the pain, maybe prolong your life! No, she said. None of it. Hospice.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now family members were making a rotating pilgrimage to visit this aunt, to provide company, solace, the presence of loved ones, to see her, talk to her, before she was gone for good.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ingrid was a scholar, a professor of marine micropaleontology at the University of Hawaii. She grew up in Los Angeles, an only-child of the afore-mentioned German immigrants, attended the University of Southern California, then went on to earn a doctorate at a prestigious university in Frankfort, Germany. &nbsp;Her doctoral thesis was written in German. She broke glass ceilings along the way. She traveled the world, sometimes spent long sojourns on ships gathering specimens from the ocean floor. She published articles. She taught classes at the university.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She never married. She was engaged once, in her early twenties, until her fiancé told her he was married to someone else and had decided to reconcile with her. Then the reconciliation failed and he wanted Ingrid back but by then she was done with him.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Over the years, Michael often wondered if this solitary aunt in Hawaii had turned from men to women for meaningful companionship – maybe had a special lady friend – but during these recent pilgrimages concluded that was not the case. She was just so earthy, so conventional. Something convinced him she was simply a solitary person, more likely asexual than bi. One of Michael’s nieces had recently written to Ingrid thanking her for setting an example, for proving that a woman doesn’t need a man to succeed in life. When Michael arrived, Ingrid requested rather urgently that he tell this niece, when he saw her again, that she didn’t endorse being single but it had just worked out that way for her. She would have been happy to be married but it never happened.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He was always intimidated by Ingrid. She was so self-assured and impatient when he misspoke or misunderstood. There seemed to be an underlying intolerance that he’d privately concluded was a hatred for men stemming from being jilted so many years ago. He was instinctively passive and non-committal in her presence, which seemed to minimize the friction. Now, though, all that was swept away. These hours of conversation were quite special, quite intimate and fresh, quite wonderful.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Still, it could be difficult filling five or six hours each day with lively give and take. Michael would be on the island five days during this visit, show up each day around 11:00, latte and pastry in hand, visit until around 2:00, then return around 5:00 with take-out food and they’d talk until maybe eight. Then he’d return to her house, have a couple of drinks on the lanai, talk to Deborah, and prepare to do it again the next day.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The previous night, pondering what new topics they might explore, he’d thought of a subject he was curious about: Ingrid’s mother Martha. He knew nothing about her except that she had died many years ago when he was three and Ingrid nineteen. He remembered Martha overseeing him and his oldest sister as they were helping prepare a family meal one Sunday at the Resig apartment in downtown LA. Michael had been assigned the task of slicing carrots. But at age three he knew little about this and was trying to cut with the dull side of the knife. Seeing this, Martha pounced on him, scolding him quite sternly, he thought. He remembered being afraid of her, a large, matronly woman with a pinched face in a simple peasant dress and an incomplete grasp of English. &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But he knew almost nothing else about her. But now, she was a mysterious void, as if she never existed: no legacy, no artifacts, barely any photographs. &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You know, Ingrid, I thought of a subject we could talk about. Why don’t you tell me about your mother? I hardly know anything about her at all.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The tension rose perceptibly in the room, she fumbled to look at her watch. She seemed flustered, but then, Ingrid was never flustered. Quickly she composed herself and spoke. “Okay. But it’s getting late now. Why don’t we talk about that when you come tomorrow.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He wondered if he’d said something out of line. Was it inappropriate to delve into someone’s private life? &nbsp;But of course, it wasn’t. This was his aunt. This was his family too. There was nothing malicious in this enquiry. Now, sitting across from her on this sunny morning, he waited eagerly to hear about this forgotten relative.

\#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“My mother was born in a city called Horka in East Germany. It was a very simple country town. I went there when I was studying in Germany in the early sixties. The house her family lived in was very austere, especially by our standards today. It was a two-story building, and my mother’s family lived in two rooms on the second floor. Generally, houses there always had outdoor plumbing but it was a great source of pride to her family that they actually had a sink with running water in their room.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael noticed her tone was rather formal, almost impersonal, more reminiscent of a lecture at the university than a conversation between an aunt and her nephew.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“The town was very small and rural. In those days, they grew most of their own fruit and vegetables, and somebody always had livestock they would slaughter for meat. Horka grew a lot of beets, for some reason. They would sell them at the market, or trade for other items they didn’t grow. But according to my mother, they always had plenty of beets. And in that area there was a lot of coal mining. A lot of the men in Horka were miners. Do you remember that little carved wooden figure on the desk in my bedroom? That’s from Horka. It’s an example of one of the miners in their typical attire. Did you notice the way the coat extends way down in the back over the rear end? Look at it carefully tonight. The uniforms were designed that way so the miners could slide down into the mines on that flap.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael remembered the carved figure, so carefully sculpted and neatly painted. He would examine it later.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Now my father, as you know, had come to the United States around 1914 with his brother Emil, your grandfather. He had been a cabinetmaker in Germany. &nbsp;Then when he came to the United States, he was able to get work as a carpenter. He and Emil were living in Wisconsin where a lot of Germans had settled.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Dad was working for this carpenter who built houses and I guess they hit it off pretty well. At one point my father asked this guy if he’d allow him to keep one of the houses they were building if he went without pay during that time. I think they were building ten houses in this particular neighborhood. So my dad ended up with a house, and that was how he got his start. Eventually he owned another house, then a gas station. He was always a very good businessman.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“At some point, Dad went back to Germany and brought Mom to the United States. She was good friends with the Resig family and he’d known her for years. Now that he had enough money to take care of a family, he went and got her and they got married.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“When was that, Ingrid?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Oh, I guess it was in the twenties. The early twenties. Then you know where we lived on 33rd Street. Dad had bought that apartment building around 1922, I think.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael remembered the solidly built apartment building in downtown LA with its spacious front porches, enormous rooms, heavy sliding doors, dark woodwork, and musky odor. Ingrid had lived with her parents in one of the downstairs units, Michael’s grandparents Emil and Margaret in one of the upstairs, the other two rented out. The apartments, though large, had only one bedroom, so Ingrid never had her own bedroom growing up; only a Murphy-bed that pulled down from a heavy closet door. She talked briefly about the grammar school she attended in downtown LA, and the high school, Polytechnic. She told about how the families, her parents Max and Martha and Emil and Margaret, ate meals together, especially on Sundays, observing the European custom of eating the main meal at mid-day and a much smaller meal, supper, at six or seven in the evening.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Then, as the story was gathering momentum, it unexpectedly ended. Michael was just getting interested. He had learned about Martha’s environment, where she was born, the circumstances of her coming to the United States, but nothing about Ingrid’s upbringing, her life with her mother, Martha’s personality or habits.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maybe sensing this, Ingrid made a half-hearted effort to flesh out the story: “She liked to sew. She was good at making little dolls. She made me a doll when I was young that I had until I left home for Germany.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And then the room was quiet, illuminated by soft light, some trucks outside working a construction site up the hill, and Ingrid sitting in bed across from him, ill with stage-four lung cancer, waiting to die, and looking fatigued.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For the rest of the afternoon, they discussed this and that, little snippets of conversations about anything that came to mind, the upcoming elections, a nephew’s job interview. Several friends dropped by to visit. Then Michael left and came back with dinner. At about eight, they said good night, he returned to the house, phoned Deborah, and settled in for the night.

\#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sitting in the dark lanai, a drink in hand, he gazed over the inky foothills sprinkled with a million dots of light. He kept reliving Ingrid’s account of her mother, perplexed by it. During the previous four days, she had reveled in a million colorful stories about her years at the university, travels to the Middle East and South Pacific, stays on the Big Island, cherished colleagues, memorable students; and then so much about her father Max, so many endearing traits and happy memories. But the recollections of her mother were surprisingly bare-boned, devoid of any joy or nostalgia, and almost mechanical in the telling. Did Ingrid share no special times with her mother, were there no little side stories, no particulars that made their relationship unique or memorable? &nbsp; &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He remembered his Uncle Ralph long ago telling a story about Martha. He said she had always been deathly afraid of going to dentists and went years without visiting one. Then when she was in her late fifties, she had a toothache that really bothered her. She put off making an appointment for as long as she could but finally couldn’t delay any longer. She had an appointment scheduled for a Monday morning. On Sunday morning, the day before, she had a heart attack and died.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Michael sipped his drink.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He thought of Martha’s imposing presence, severe face and harsh manner. Then he felt sympathetic toward her. Her life was probably bleaker and more isolated than he ever considered. She had grown up in a small town in Germany and when she immigrated to the United States, was probably ill at ease with the strange language and customs of Los Angeles. Maybe she lived in a world of fear and avoidance, overwhelmed by life, compensating with a façade of bluster and self-assurance. Maybe Martha wasn’t as insensitive as he had concluded. Maybe Ingrid’s account was sparse because Martha died so long ago and the memories were now distant. And maybe the memories were just too painful to dredge up.

\#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the darkness, he was aware of Ingrid’s presence in the house. Every room, every piece of furniture, every wall hanging and souvenir reminded him of her. It was hard to believe she would never set foot here again. She had occupied this house for forty years, lived a solitary existence, going to the university each day, collecting underwater fossils, identifying, labeling, ordering, writing scholarly works, and teaching.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He finished his drink and made another. The alcohol made the twinkling lights and muted little houses more spectacular.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yes, Ingrid undeniably lived a good, honest life. He wondered if she’d accomplished all she hoped. From their conversations, he suspected the answer was yes, at least as much as it can be for anyone. Maybe that was why she chose to let the cancer take its course without opposition. Or maybe she just didn’t want to linger into senility like her father.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As he watched a car move below along Hind Street, he felt a lump in his throat. He envisioned Ingrid’s stiff dead body being taken to a mortuary, then put into an oven and cremated. It was hard to believe she wouldn’t feel pain as the flames devoured her. Then she would be gone forever. And then gradually the people who knew her would die and some day the last person who ever knew her would be dead and her memory would be gone forever.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He felt melancholy as he realized these were the final hours of probably his final visit with Ingrid. In the morning, he would visit her for the last time, say his final goodbyes, then rush to the airport, return the rental car, shuttle to the terminal, go through customs, and march onto the plane. He could already hear the deafening roar of the engines as they hurtled over the runway and lifted into the sky.
