# BLACK AND WHITE

<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_This story should be read in black and white. Not black letters on white pages or black people interacting with white people but like black and white photography. The harsh compositions and stark images of the fifties and sixties and before revealed more character and depth than today’s digital high resolution, sharp color, hues, and shadings, so technically advanced that it obscures the subtle moods, passions, and underlying truths of its human subjects. Read this story as if it were an old black and white photo._

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In 1964, in Mrs. Henderson’s fourth grade class at Jefferson Elementary School in East Bakersfield, the third Thursday of each month was dance day. By May there had already been seven previous dance days (there was not one in December). As the eighth one commenced, Dina, sitting next to Delia Rosas in the back of the class, watched glumly as the boys began picking partners.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She dreaded dance day not because she didn’t like dancing, which she did, or didn’t like music, which she certainly did. Music was one of her greatest passions. She was forever surrounded by it, her father a professional musician, her mother in the church choir, her sister in a rock band in San Francisco. She listened to music every day, watched Lawrence Welk and Hee Haw on Saturday nights. Alone at home in front of the TV, she would routinely lose herself to music, move freely and without restraint. But this happened only at home and when alone.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She hated dance day because none of the boys ever picked her for their partner. In those days, when Mrs. Henderson cleared the front of the class and prepared to place the needle onto the revolving black vinyl record, the protocol was for the boys to ask the girls to dance, the most popular boys always picking the most popular girls, the shyer boys then picking the less popular ones, then the few stragglers, the introverts and misfits, mostly girls, would be left sitting alone, to be paired by Mrs. Henderson to dance with the other outcasts, then to follow Mrs. Henderson’s prescribed movements, their faces taut, their insides screaming that they hated themselves for being fat or ugly or tall or cross-eyed.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina was not only very dark skinned and socially awkward, but one of only three black students at Jefferson Elementary, part of the first wave of black students to integrate this formerly all-white school. The previous year, at Potomac Elementary, state tests determined she was a fast learner with an unusually high IQ. When her fourth-grade school year started, she was redirected, with her mother’s uneasy blessings, to Jefferson, along with Barry and Bobby Thomas, black twin brothers from another all-black elementary school.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The bare truth was that Dina was a lovely young woman with alert brown eyes, beautiful full lips, a delightful smile, and rich creamy black skin. But of course, she didn’t believe any of this, and even if she did, she knew these were the very assets that made her an outcast and confirmed that she was an ugly freak.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She watched Randy Slade approach Trina Josephs and speak to her quietly, causing her to blush and giggle, then walk with him to the front of the class. And Dale Walker approached Carolyn Pindar, and Mark Seasons picked Michelle Traynor, and even Barry and Bobby Thomas quickly found willing, gushing partners, Carolyn Naples and Marilyn Haynes, so that the front of the class was becoming crowded. Meanwhile, Dina, Delia Rosas and a few others, remained at their desks, their unpopularity confirmed by their isolation.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For Dina, being unpopular was nothing new. She had never been gregarious or outgoing, even at Potomac, where she was often resented for being _different_, for being a snob who spoke with clear, _white_ elocution, read in the fast group, and got high grades. Nor did she participate in the perpetual playground intrigues and dramas, usually keeping to herself, which provoked more suspicion and contempt.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If Dina hoped she’d find solace from the other two black students, Barry and Bobby Thomas, she was quickly disappointed. They wanted nothing to do with this chunky, not-even-light-skinned black girl. They were every bit as nerdy as Dina – they’d scored well on the IQ tests too – but they were boys and very outgoing, so their dark skin was perceived as _exotic_ rather than unfortunate and they had no trouble finding dance partners. Dina was the last girl they’d think of picking.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As the final dancers coupled up, Dina saw Dwight Jensen, the tiny white-skinned, white-haired boy who played the cello, walking toward the back of the room. She wondered where he was going. Did he have to use the restroom?

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maybe because she was already accustomed to being an outcast, Dina didn’t feel particularly isolated in an all-white school. She didn’t grasp the significance of these circumstances, the integration of one of Bakersfield’s elementary schools. She was not aware that in places like Alabama there were civil rights marches and riots and National Guard troops escorting black students into formerly all-white classrooms. She was already accustomed to being one of the only black people in a crowd, at the market or the movies. She didn’t even give a lot of thought to Darryl Markham’s question during the first week of school as they stood near the sand box watching other kids swing on the monkey bars when he asked, “Are both of your parents niggers?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She knew the word _nigger_ was not a complimentary term, but in the over-all scheme of things, given the general chaos and hostility of the world she knew, she wasn’t quite sure what Darryl meant by the question. He seemed genuinely curious, not hostile. She answered in a soft voice. “I guess so.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She was more concerned when Caleb Phillips approached her on the playground one day and belligerently asked if her butt was as dark as her face. &nbsp;When she tried to ignore him, he asked again, only louder. When she realized he wasn’t going to leave her alone, she said of course it is. Then when he demanded she prove it, she turned to walk away but he grabbed her waistband and tried to pull her skirt down. When she resisted and pulled away, she tripped and fell to the asphalt, skinning her knees. When she got to her feet, she was surprised to see Mrs. Henderson standing nearby calmly looking on. When Mrs. Henderson made no move, Dina approached her and told her that Caleb was trying to pull her dress down. Mrs. Henderson assessed Dina with dry eyes and said, “Why would he do that? Are you sure you didn’t _invite_ him to?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When Dina said no, Mrs. Henderson said, “If you don’t flirt with the boys, they’ll leave you alone,” then walked away. As Caleb watched this, he stuck his tongue out at Dina as in _I told you so!_
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After that, Dina became even more introverted. On the playground, she kept mostly to herself. In class, she sat quietly in the back of the room with Delia Rosas, never drawing attention to herself, following class activities with her bright brown eyes, complying with Mrs. Henderson’s instructions, and promptly turning in all homework. She found herself remembering a bit of advice her father would often recite: _Don’t ever make trouble and always go along with the program_. She once thought those words were silly but now embraced them as her survival mechanism.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In mid-October, Mrs. Henderson assigned the class to read _A Tale of Two Cities_. Most of the class moaned when they learned how long the book was, nearly 500 pages. But Dina dutifully went to the public library, checked out a copy and began reading at home each evening. When two weeks later Mrs. Henderson asked if anyone had started reading the book yet, several students raised their hands. Mrs. Henderson called on each one and asked how many chapters they’d finished. Three students reported having read one chapter, another had read six chapters and Tony Wilhelm said he’d read nearly half the book. When Mrs. Henderson got to Dina at the back of the class and asked how many chapters of _A Tale of Two Cities_ she’d read, she reported she’d already finished.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mrs. Henderson assessed her with hard eyes. “You _finished_ it?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina nodded softly.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You finished the _whole_ _book_?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yes.” Her voice was barely audible.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Alright, Dina. Will you tell the class what it was about?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina wasn’t sure if she’d done something wrong but obediently explained that a lady named Lucie Manette went to France because she thought her father was in prison there but he had already been released and now he was crazy because he was in a cell alone for so long and always made shoes but she got him back home to England and nursed him back to health. Then there was a trial for a man named Charles Darnay for being a spy but he looked just like a lawyer in the court room so the court said it might be the wrong man . . .
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Class,” Mrs. Henderson said, cutting her off. “Dina has already read the whole book. Now if she can read that whole book in two weeks, then each of you should certainly be able to read it in one month.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina was still uncertain whether she’d done something wrong but then Mrs. Henderson moved to another subject and the matter was dropped.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just as the third Thursday of every month was dance day, so was every second Tuesday _show-and-tell_ day, a day when students shared something about their life such as a hobby or a memorable vacation. During the fall semester, Lance Bigelow brought in his snake collection. Bill Eagleton brought pictures of his trip to Sacramento and the State Capitol. Trish Sansa brought her rabbit Fluffy and Carolyn Pindar told about her trip to Washington DC and the Smithsonian Institute, a museum so huge it took a whole week to see it all. She’d seen the first airplane that ever flew, Abraham Lincoln’s desk, and a book printed before the United States was even a country.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On the first show-and-tell day in January, Dina stepped quietly to the front of the room. With a serious expression, she explained that her father was a pianist and sometimes other musicians and singers came to their house. She said the Ink Spots and the Mills Brothers had come to visit her father and they were very famous and she produced two glossy black and white pictures, their edges cut with pinking shears. In one, four or five black men stood in a murky living room, Dina standing in front of them, one of the men resting his hands on her shoulders. In the other, a group of black men stood around a piano, one of them playing and the others smiling to the camera. But she saved the best for last. &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“And Jimmy O’Hare came to our house too.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The class gasped. Jimmy O’Hare of the _Jimmy O’Hare Rabbit Show_? The _famous_ Jimmy O’Hare? The class watched breathlessly as Dina held up the photograph of Jimmy O’Hare sitting on the couch in her living room with a smiling Dina on his knee. As the photo was passed around the class, students said, “Wow!” and “Neat!” and tried to grab the picture from one another. When the photograph had circulated around the class and was returned to Dina, Mark Seasons said, “Can you tell him to come to our class?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina shrugged. “I don’t know.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mrs. Henderson stepped forward and spoke in a stern voice. “No, Jimmy O’Hare won’t be coming to class. That’s a home-time activity, not for school.” She turned to Dina.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Show-and-tell should be about things _you_ did, not things your _parents_ did. I know you’re proud that Jimmy O’Hare came to your house but that’s really because he came to visit your father. Show-and-tell should be about activities or hobbies that _you_ have. Now when you do your next show-and-tell, it better be about something more appropriate. Do you understand?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina nodded, even though she really didn’t understand, and walked quickly back to her seat and sat, her eyes red. She gulped hard and resisted the urge to cry as Dwayne Hoosler stepped to the front of the room and opened a shoebox, revealing dozens of nuts. He explained that most people aren’t aware that there are 53 different varieties of nut. He had collected 32 so far but was trying to collect all 53. He held each one up for the class to see and identified it: peanut, hazelnut, almond, pistachio, pecan, walnut, cashew, chestnut, macadamia, English walnut, black walnut, acorn, cacao nut, nutmeg. When he held up and identified a filbert nut, Mrs. Henderson said to him, “Do you know the other name for filbert nuts?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dwayne shrugged.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Class?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No one answered.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Nigger toes,” she announced in a firm voice.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dwayne looked uncomfortable and the class went silent.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Did you know that?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He shook his head.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She looked at Dina. “Dina, did you know that?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina shook her head no, though in truth she did know. She knew all the unkind things said about black people, and she knew it was better not to protest them. But that night when she rode the school bus, she was sullen, and when she got home, she cried inconsolably. When her mother Helen asked why she was crying, she said the teacher was mean to her and said filbert nuts are called nigger toes. Upon hearing this, Helen looked weary, then spoke impatiently. “Baby, that’s nothing. People will always say unkind things like that. Now if you can’t take it, they’re going to just eat you up alive. From now on when anybody says any mess like that, you just ignore them and don’t let them know it bothers you. &nbsp;You hear?” &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The next day at recess, several classmates approached Dina and asked about Jimmy O’Hare and if it was true that he came to her house. Dina told them that yes, he came to her house because he knows her father. Then as she watched the other girls jump-roping, Marilyn Haynes, a pretty blonde girl, appeared and said, “What was it like talking to Jimmy O’Hare?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina was surprised Marilyn was even giving her the time of day. “He’s nice. He told me about the _Rabbit Show_. He said it’s really fun working there and he really likes all the other people there like Big Roy Williams and Peter the Puppet Master.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Marilyn said, “You’re so lucky. I wish I could meet Jimmy O’Hare.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina wasn’t sure what to say. She wasn’t sure why Marilyn was even talking to her. Then Marilyn said, “Mrs. Henderson shouldn’t have said _nigger toes_ yesterday. My parents won’t let my brother and I say that word at all.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina looked at Marilyn. “Nigger toes?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Marilyn looked aside. “Just the first part.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Nigger?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She nodded.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Why not?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Because it’s a bad word.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;That day, Marilyn sat with Dina on the lunch bench. They ate quietly, only talking from time to time. And from then on, they ate lunch together almost every day, swapping sandwiches and sharing a million private secrets.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina’s social standing was rising, first because Jimmy O’Hare had been to her house and secondly because one of the most popular girls in class, Marilyn Haynes, had taken her under her wing. But when report cards were sent home in late January, Dina was surprised to receive mostly Cs and a few Bs. When her mother Helen saw the grades, she looked at her daughter with a frown. “What’s this? You usually get such good grades. Haven’t you been studying?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina shrugged. “Yes.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Helen signed the report card but made an appointment to meet with Mrs. Henderson. At the meeting, the two women sat across from one another in the teacher’s lounge. Mrs. Henderson was nervous and fidgety, Helen calm. Mrs. Henderson, speaking quickly and in a reedy voice, said Dina was an excellent student but maybe facing much stronger competition now that she was in an all-white school.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Helen gazed at Mrs. Henderson with weary eyes. “But didn’t she take the same tests that all the other students took? Didn’t she score well enough to be in the fast learners’ class like everyone else?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yes,” Mrs. Henderson conceded, her voice strained, “but I doubt if she was ever pushed very hard at Potomac.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Helen took this in quietly. “I guess that’s it. I’ll make sure she studies harder this semester.”

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For some reason, when the new semester started in February, Dina found the air lighter and life easier. Maybe she was getting used to the new surroundings. She still didn’t feel like an equal among her classmates even though she had evolved into a celebrity of sorts, maybe reminiscent of her father, the pianist, and though that role wasn’t entirely comfortable, it was better than before. When the class was given another reading assignment, a book report about a novel of their own choosing, Dina chose _The Grapes of Wrath_. At first, Mrs. Henderson thought that book was too mature for her class, then decided to let Dina take it on. When Dina read her book report to the class, telling the story of the dust storms in Oklahoma and the Joad family’s travels to California, their grandmother dying in the back of the truck, sleeping in camps and trying to get work and Tom Joad killing a policeman and running away and the family not knowing how they were going to eat, the class was transfixed. When she was done, they applauded. She smiled openly as she walked back to her seat. The book report was so thorough that Mrs. Henderson wondered if Dina had been tutored by her parents. But she remembered Dina’s mother and the show-and-tell photographs of her father and concluded that that was not the case, that Dina was simply an aberration, an anomaly, inexplicably talented despite her background.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When in May it was Dina’s turn for show-and-tell, Mrs. Henderson called her name and she walked to the front of the class with a ragged shoe box, then explained that she’d been collecting buttons for a long time and wanted to share them with the class. &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She held up a large orange button. “This used to belong to my sister in San Francisco but she gave it to me. She told me it’s the kind people wear there.” Then she held up a star-shaped button. “My sister gave me this one too. It used to be on a shirt of a rock musician but it came off and she got it.” She had square buttons, round, triangular, single-holed, double-holed, quadruple-holed, ones that looked like an eyeball or a cotton ball or a golf ball, ones that were no more than a small loop and made of resin, glass, plastic, iron, tin, stone and wood. There was one from a Civil War army uniform and several wood buttons from her grandmother including the human hair that had originally been used to sew them. &nbsp;“This was how they attached buttons a long time ago.” She had buttons that looked like a tiger’s eye, an ostrich eye, and a whirlpool, holding each one up and letting the class pass them around. &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When she completed her presentation and had retrieved all the buttons and closed the box, Mrs. Henderson said, “That was very interesting, Dina. Class, did you enjoy that?” The class applauded. Dina smiled as she walked to the back of the class and resumed her seat. &nbsp;

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now, back to May of 1964, as the boys were picking their partners for the final dance day of the semester, Dina noticed Dwight Jensen, the tiny white-skinned, white-haired boy who played the cello, moving toward her and Delia. &nbsp;Was he going to ask Delia to dance? That was surprising. But then he walked right up to Dina and said politely, “Do you want to be my dance partner?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina was shocked, but responded instinctively, “Okay,” standing and following him to the front of the class. She was taller and bigger than Dwight but didn’t care at all. As they waited for Mrs. Henderson to place the needle on the vinyl record, she couldn’t contain her smile. She was standing in front of the class with a partner who had chosen her on dance day. She chuckled at every little joke and comment made by the others. When the music began, everyone moved as they’d been instructed during the previous months, Dina proudly with her little partner, enjoying dance day for the first time. When everyone returned to their seats, she was giggly and cheerful, joking with Delia.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the many years since those days, Dina would often think about Delia Rosas, Marilyn Haynes and Dwight Jensen but life was so busy she never reached out to them. But one evening fifty years after Mrs. Henderson’s class, she vowed to attempt to contact them. She lived in Sacramento now, had raised two children, was a PhD in Psychology, and her research on racial biases and stereotypes in child molestation cases was referenced in courtrooms throughout the country.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just as she had changed, black and white photography had been replaced by digital photos taken by cell phones and phone books and information operators had been replaced by the internet and social media. The searches for her old classmates didn’t take long. She learned quickly that Dwight Jensen had died in an auto accident many years ago. She could not track down Delia Rosas, probably because her name was so common and she might now have a married name.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But she did track down a Marilyn Haynes Thomas in the Bay Area, then when she saw pictures of the beautiful, beaming blonde woman, knew immediately it was the same Marilyn from fourth grade. She was amazed to learn that Marilyn was married to Bobby Thomas, also from Mrs. Henderson’s class. She contacted Marilyn, they exchanged e-mails, then phone calls. She learned that Marilyn and Bobby had been married for thirty-five years, had three grown sons, Bobby was a pediatrician, his brother Barry an attorney in San Francisco. In successive conversations Dina and Marilyn relived their days at Jefferson Elementary School so long ago, the dance days, the show-and-tell days, the talent shows, the book reports.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Why did you ever befriend me in the first place?” Dina asked one time.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Why? Because you were the most beautiful and confident person in the class. I was just drawn to you.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Really?” Dina challenged. “I always saw myself as a frightened little nerd. You were one of the cool kids. I never understood why you were willing to have anything to do with me.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Wow, that’s not how I remember it at all,” Marilyn said. “There was a pause. “Mrs. Henderson was mean to you. I couldn’t believe some of the things she said. She couldn’t get away with that kind of racial abuse today.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina reflected on this. “I don’t think poor Mrs. Henderson was ready for integration. She was probably happily doing her job, then one day found herself at ground zero. I’m sure she never dreamed she’d ever have black kids in her class.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Marilyn was less charitable. “She was a racist bitch.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina smiled. “You have to remember; she was brought up in a different era. She didn’t know any better.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You’re not bitter?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“No. What good would it do? And I’m sure that if Mrs. Henderson and I met today . . .” &nbsp;She stopped. “Actually, I’m not sure what would happen if we met today. But it’s not worth stressing over. All that is in the past.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“But the memories are always with us.” &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dina sighed. “Yeah.” &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They would spend many hours reliving those days fifty years before, their shared recollections a comfortable refuge from the harsh colors and jagged edges of the here and now, no doubt made comfier and more nostalgic for being in basic, uncomplicated black and white.
