# HAMLIN STREET

Conner’s world changed the afternoon he heard a woman screaming from down the street. Her words were, “I can’t stand it! Take it away! I can’t stand it anymore!”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It came several beats after screeching tires.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He was in the backyard looking for a shovel to dig a hole in the ground behind the garage. He was a scruffy, dirty little kid who loved dirt and crawling around like a lizard in the underground forts he’d build with his friends, so much so that his older sister Sharon, so much bigger and more mature, often told him he smelled like a puppy. He wandered out to the front yard to see a throng of humanity sweep toward the house. He stepped back and pressed himself against the stucco wall as a man he didn’t recognize ran up the steps cradling his three-year-old sister Celia. She was wailing at the top of her lungs, her thick long hair falling behind her. The man brought her into the living room and eased her onto the couch. Within minutes, Conner’s father Donald wrapped her in a blanket, scooped her up, and sped away in the blue Ford.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the following days, the house became eerily quiet. His parents were often at the hospital visiting Celia and his older sister Sharon seemed so sullen. One afternoon, he went into Celia’s bedroom and picked up the dirty little saddle shoes she’d been wearing the day she was hit by the car and tears came to his eyes. In those days they would keep people in the hospital for a long time, unlike today when a coronary bypass requires only a three-day stay. Celia was kept for three weeks and Conner was never allowed to visit. He overheard that she was in traction, her legs pulled straight up in the air in the hospital bed.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When she was brought home, she was in a full body cast encircling her up to the armpits and down to her right knee and left foot. The first night, as she lay on the couch, completely immobile, the cast felt too restrictive and she panicked, again throwing her head back and screaming miserably.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the weeks that followed, Conner’s father would place Celia, still in the body cast, into a little wagon, prop her head up with pillows, and pull her for long rides around the neighborhood. Conner would sometimes tag along. They’d walk miles, up Hamlin Street, double back along Gilmore, sometimes down Van Owen to the Piggly Wiggly Market where they would get ice cream, sometimes out to the empty fields on the other side of Victory Blvd.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The neighborhood was a post-World War II suburb bull-dozed over San Fernando Valley fields to accommodate returning GIs. Everyone had kids who ran free and lived outdoors or with other families. The houses were modest stucco three-bedroom one-bath with detached garages that sold cheap, no money down with a VA loan. Shortly after Conner’s family moved in, his mother Carol called the builders to make a few minor repairs. When she asked the painter why the bathroom door jamb was so uneven, he looked at her like she was crazy and said, “What do you expect for $10,000?” &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The only phone was on a desk in the entry hall and would clang like a fire alarm so it could be heard throughout the house. In those days, there were no cell phones and no separate business lines; just one heavy, industrial-strength, all-purpose black rotary phone, and that would often be a party-line shared with two or three other households. To make an out-going call, you first had to make sure none of your neighbors were already on the line.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As far as Conner was concerned, the phone was a strange and frightening device that he had no use for. He never made calls. Many nights his father would call home before leaving the office. Conner would hear his mother talking to him, then announce that Daddy was on his way, which he and his sisters always found exciting. Aside from that, Conner’s only dealings with the phone were to answer it when nobody else would. His greatest hope was that it would be his father, but usually it was one of his father’s clients. They would ask if Donald was home. If he wasn’t, they’d want to leave a message, but that was almost impossible for Conner. He had no sense of payments and premiums and over-due notices. He’d try to take numbers, but usually asked them to please call back later when his father would be home.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Conner’s family received a lot of phone calls in the middle of the night. Each time, one of his parents would clamor out of bed to answer. But when they picked up the receiver and said hello, there would be silence at the other end, no dial tone, as if someone was listening quietly but unwilling to speak. Conner’s mother told him years later that the calls came from their next-door neighbor, Mrs. Snyder, who’d confessed her sins to another neighbor who later told his mother. Mrs. Snyder had a baby that slept in a bedroom right next to the driveway. When Conner’s father came home each night around ten, he’d park right under the baby’s window with the radio blaring. Mrs. Snyder was angry that her child was being disturbed so her middle of the night calls was her way of getting even.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Conner’s parents were in a lot of clubs and went to a lot of meetings. His mother Carol was in the sewing club with other neighborhood wives. They’d gather one evening a week at someone’s house and share dessert and talk about whatever they wanted to talk about. Conner didn’t remember them ever actually doing any sewing. And there was the bridge club where there’d be three card tables set out in the living room and six couples rotating to different tables calling trump and no trump and I’m the dummy. Conner would usually hide in his bedroom because the cigarette smoke would be so thick you could barely see across the living room and the house would wreak for days afterward.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Not long after Celia was hit by the car, Donald initiated a campaign to make the neighborhood safer for children. Perched at the little desk in the entry hall, he would call the neighbors up and down the block and gently encourage them to park their cars in their driveways rather than along the curb in front of their houses because cars parked along the curb blocked drivers’ views of children darting into the street. In Celia’s case, she’d chased a ball into the street from behind a parked car so the on-coming driver had no chance to stop.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After the phone campaign, Donald began talking to neighbors face to face. On Sunday afternoons, he would knock on doors up and down the block, engaging in conversations about the perils of parking cars along the curb and how his daughter had almost been killed because of this practice, not that he blamed Chase Johnston or his wife for parking their car out there that day since they didn’t know how dangerous it was at the time.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At first, excited by the official nature of this activity, Conner would tag along, hopping up the steps at each house ahead of his father and ring the doorbell, then stand back and watch the adults talk. But he got bored with the slow and repetitive pace and eventually stopped tagging along, even when his father asked him to.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The project gathered momentum. Donald traveled the entire length of Hamlin Street in both directions, then up and down Gilmore Street, spreading his children’s safety message in an ever-widening circumference.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Then he formed the children’s safety committee. Meetings were held to discuss cars parking along the curbs and whether there should be speed limit signs and speed bumps and streetlights. He held meetings all over the neighborhood, and since he was already gone due to work almost every night, it got so Conner saw his father even less than before, only when he was coming or going.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Conner was a very active and energetic child, filled with nervous energy and always on the move. Aside from the underground forts he’d build behind the garage, he’d frequently wander down the street to Jackie Oren’s house half-way down the block, or Billy Sweeney’s, across the street from Jackie’s. They would duck behind shrubs and fire toy pistols at one another or become involved for days with elaborate deliberations to bury a dead turtle in a shallow grave in the Oren backyard or discuss how the colorful magnolia buds on the trees along the street, when their skin was peeled away, were reminiscent of a woman taking off her clothes.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One Sunday afternoon, Conner decided to go on an adventure. He had become friends with a boy named David Fink at Lemay Street School. David was blonde with a crew cut, the popular close-cropped military style with a small cowlick slicked straight up in front. Conner liked the way David wore crisp blue jeans with neat two-inch cuffs and a white T-shirt. They sat close together in class and were both good dodge ball players. One day as they were waiting for the playground equipment to be collected, they talked about their home addresses and discovered that they lived close to one another, Conner at 17451 Hamlin, David at 17614 Gilmore. Conner told David he would come visit someday. David said, “Okay.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;That Sunday afternoon, Conner’s mother was in the dining room sewing a dress for Celia, Celia scribbling into a coloring book spread out on the floor. He slipped as quietly as possible out the front door and out to the sidewalk. When he was sure he was safe, he walked to the corner where Encino Avenue crossed Hamlin, then one block over to the mysterious domain called Gilmore Street.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As he moved past the strange houses and unfamiliar people, he felt like he was on an alien planet. Carefully he noted the addresses of each house, remembering his recent discovery that house numbers change in ascending or descending order depending on which direction you were going. He was reassured that these numbers were descending as he moved down the block.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But he didn’t know that odd numbers were always on one side of the street and even numbers on the other and became concerned when David Fink’s house didn’t appear where it should. But then he saw David across the street chasing another boy, then catching him and wrestling him to the ground.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Hey David!”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;By the time he crossed the street, the two boys were standing and waiting for him. Conner told David he was here to visit like he said he would. David looked bewildered, then shrugged his shoulders and said, “Okay. Skip and me are going to his house to get his sling shot. Do you want to come?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Where?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“There,” they both said, pointing to a gray house two doors down.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As the three walked to Skip’s house, Conner noticed a familiar blue Ford sedan in the driveway.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He said to Skip, “Why is my father’s car here?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“That’s not your father’s car,” Skip said. “It’s Andy’s car.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Conner walked around the side and saw the familiar scratch on the driver’s door, then the torn red Yosemite sticker on the back bumper. &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“That’s my father’s car,” he said again.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You’re crazy,” Skip said.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Conner wasn’t sure what to think. Skip insisted this wasn’t his father’s car, and he should know, but on the other hand, Conner was positive it was the same car that was parked in the driveway in front of their house every night. &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They walked to the front door and Skip let everyone in. The house was quiet and dark, smelled like cigarettes, and the TV was on but the sound muted. It hummed and hissed each time the picture changed, the shifting shadows casting wild images all over the room.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“C’mon,” Skip said, leading the group into the hallway toward the back of the house. As they passed an open bedroom door, they heard a commotion inside and realized there were people in there. Then a figure crawled out of bed and stood up. In the darkness Conner was able to make out a woman’s form, then as his eyes adjusted, realized she was completely nude. He was stunned. He’d never seen a woman’s big breasts before.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Skipper!” she screamed.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“What,” he barked.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As Conner looked on, she snatched a bathrobe and draped herself in it, then stepped into the hallway and addressed the little group.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I told you boys to stay outside!”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“We came to get my sling shot.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I don’t want you playing with the slingshot,” she scolded. “It’s too dangerous. Now you boys go back outside.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As she spoke, a lamp in the room flicked on. A man climbed out of the bed and stood. When the light cast onto his face, Conner recognized him immediately. It was his father Donald.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Donald didn’t see Conner. He was busy getting dressed and the hallway where Conner stood was dark. When Skip’s mother said, “You boys go outside now,” Conner quickly moved to the front door.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When the boys were outside, Conner’s legs were shaky. He didn’t grasp the full significance of this, but knew something wasn’t right. The air went out of him as if he’d been slugged in the stomach and couldn’t catch his breath.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“What should we do now?” David said.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Skip had an idea. “Let’s go down to that big ditch and throw rocks in the water.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;David looked uneasy. “My mom said I can’t go far because we’re going to have dinner soon.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“So early?” Skip protested. “The sun’s still out.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“We eat early on Sunday,” he explained.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Skip looked at Conner. “Do you want to go?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Conner didn’t really want to go either and knew his mother would forbid it, but knew he would already be in trouble if she knew he’d wandered this far, so he said, “Okay.” And he wanted to get away from Skip’s house before he saw his father again, or before his father saw him.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;David went home and Skip and Conner walked to the end of the block and around the corner to Victory Blvd. Victory was a much busier road with cars zipping back and forth. Conner knew he was treading into strictly forbidden territory now, but when Skip said, “C’mon!” and dashed across the street, he instinctively followed. He was a few yards behind Skip and a car had to brake sharply to avoid him, its tires screeching, but he made it safely.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just past the the road there was a trench forty feet deep and forty feet across where a sewer line was being installed. Because it was Sunday, the site was abandoned and Skip and Conner could sneak past all the barriers and get as close as they wanted.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They stepped to the edge of the chasm and gazed down at the pool of brown water. Skip said, “Watch this!” and heaved a big dusty rock, watching it sail downward, then kerplunk noisily into the water, making them both laugh.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Conner retrieved a rock and threw it, then they both collected an armful of rocks and dirt clods and threw them one after another, watching them splash and disappear beneath the surface. At that moment, Conner thought this was the most glorious activity ever.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But he wanted a closer vantage point, so he followed a narrow ledge that angled down the side of the trench to a small shelf about five feet from the top. Almost immediately, he stepped into a puddle. He thought it was shallow, but the bottom was soft and without warning he slid in up to his waist, his feet quickly tangled in thick ooze. When he tried to pull himself up, he was stuck fast, mud to his chest.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;From above, Skip yelled, “C’mon!”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I can’t get out!” Conner shouted, becoming panicky. The more he pulled, the more snugly he was trapped. He was sure he could extricate himself, but no matter how hard he pulled, he could not get out. He screamed for Skip to help, but he had left. Bleakly he wondered if he would be here all night.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After a while, he saw two other kids on the cliff above. In a rage he tried to pull himself out again, but still couldn’t. Then there were some grown-ups gazing down to him, then more. Soon there was a crowd of people looking on with fascination. Then without warning a man appeared next to him, bent over Conner and said, “Give me your arms.” When Conner reached up, the man grabbed his wrists and pulled as hard as he could. Conner thought his arms were going to break, but then his feet started coming loose and with a slurping sound he rose from the goop, though his jeans stayed behind.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In a minute, he was standing next to the trench in only a t-shirt and underpants, covered entirely with mud, the observers amused, pointing and laughing. Then out of nowhere his mother appeared and led him away. He was mortified to be outside in only his underwear, but his mother Carol walked him home without speaking and then ran a bath for him.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She didn’t spank or reprimand him for wandering off that day. And he never told her about seeing his father at Skip’s house. He was too distraught over his close call and didn’t want to admit it had happened in the first place.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But whenever he’d see his father after that, he’d envision him at Skip’s house that Sunday afternoon. But he never broached the subject with him or anyone else, believing he himself was in the wrong. He wasn’t supposed to be so far away from home that day. And he assumed that event was another one of those mysterious adult activities he didn’t comprehend but knew not to challenge. Gradually, he thought about it less and less.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;During the following months, Conner sensed something different at home. As infrequently as he typically saw his father, he was seeing him less and less. There had always been traces of his existence at home, occasional sightings on the weekends, his keys on the table, his car in the front driveway. But one day, it occurred to him he hadn’t seen his father for a long time. He walked into the living room where Sharon sat at the dining room table doing homework, his mother in the kitchen with Celia.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Where’s Daddy?” he said.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sharon looked up with her wide-set eyes, high forehead and straight-cut bangs without saying a word, then got up and went to the kitchen.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A minute later, his mother called him. When he stepped to her side, she told him to sit at the kitchen table next to her. In a gentle voice she told him Daddy wasn’t going to be coming home for a while. He was going to live somewhere else for the time being.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Where?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“In another house.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Why?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Because it’s what he needs to do right now.” Her voice was gentle and firm.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“When will we see him?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She smiled sadly. “Not right away. Maybe in a couple weeks.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“But he should be here,” Conner protested. “_This_ is his house.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sharon came in. “He lives in Reseda,” she said. “You can go to his house every other Saturday and Sunday.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He assessed her angrily. “That’s not true!”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;His mother told Sharon to go back to the other room.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Is that true?” he demanded.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;His mother’s eyes were red. She nodded silently.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As he looked to her, trying to comprehend this, she scooped him up and held him tight. As they rocked quietly, tears rolled down his cheeks.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“With Daddy gone, it’s going to be hard to take care of everything. I’m going to be depending on you to be good. Will you do that for me?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He couldn’t believe this was happening. He pressed his face against her shoulder and cried inconsolably. &nbsp;
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“When I ask you to do something,” she said, “I’ll expect you to do what you’re told. Will you do that for me?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Okay,” he snuffled. “But will Daddy be coming home again?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He felt her lurch. “I don’t know. Maybe in a while.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;From then on, Conner and Sharon and Celia would see their father once every other weekend, but those visits were tense and uncomfortable. Their mother would have them scrubbed and ready at the appointed time, then when Donald’s car pulled into the driveway, they would scurry out to meet him and climb into his car. Donald would be happy to see his children and they would all laugh and hug joyfully. Then he’d take them somewhere, sometimes a park, once a drive to Simi Valley, another time to the La Brea Tar Pits. But as the day wore on, he’d always become aloof and gaze into the distance and not answer when they spoke to him. Celia was usually grumpy and cried a lot. Sharon would hold her and try to keep her occupied. When they’d get back to the house, Conner always felt unsettled by the visit but still didn’t want his father to leave.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Despite his promise to his mother to be good and helpful, Conner found it difficult to be either. Though it seemed like his father was seldom home before, now that he was officially gone, he felt like half of his world was gone. He felt crazy, as if he was floating in outer space. He began wandering all over the neighborhood, even to Haynes Street and Kitteridge, getting into trouble any way he could, cutting garden hoses, throwing eggs at front doors. Sometimes he would walk over to Skip’s house on Gilmore Street to look for his father’s car, but never saw it again. In fact, Skip and his mother were gone and other people lived there now. Conner wasn’t sure if he was happy or sad about that. He wanted to see his father more than anything, but not really at Skip’s house.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At school he became disruptive and was sent to the principal’s office several times. He was restless in class and couldn’t focus on his schoolwork. At recess he got into fights with other boys. He played kick-ball and sock-ball with reckless abandon, kicking or socking the ball with a rage and running the bases like a flash. He loved to yell _Hey batter, hey batter_ at the opposing team, convinced that the more he chanted, the better his team would do.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And he would often cry at the most inopportune times, then try to wipe his tears away before anyone noticed. At night as he lay in bed, he’d chant quietly to himself, imitating the playground chant, but instead of _Hey batter, hey batter_, substitute _Come home, daddy, come home, daddy_, hoping this would bring his father back.

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One night, Conner was particularly melancholy and couldn’t stop thinking about his father. After dinner, he sat on the front porch until long after dark. At one point, Sharon cracked the front door open and said, “You’re supposed to be in the house. If you don’t come in, I’m going to tell Mom.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I can be out as long as I want,” he insisted, then remembered his promise to his mother and reluctantly went back in.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But that night, he couldn’t let it go. He lay awake for a long time, his thoughts dwelling on his father. After everyone was asleep, he snuck out of bed and returned to the porch. The neighborhood was dark and still. He looked up to the stars and the moon, then to Mrs. Snyder’s house across the driveway, so bleak and foreboding. He was certain that any minute his father’s car would pull into the driveway, the headlights shafting across her house, the radio blaring. He began whispering his chant: _Come home, Daddy. Come home, Daddy_.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But the minutes passed with nothing but darkness. Once or twice, he saw headlights approach from down the street, filling him with hope, but each time the dark hulk would chug past and he’d slump back into his doldrums.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After an hour, he decided he just wasn’t getting through, so he stood and let his voice elevate from a whisper to a normal speaking level. _Come home, Daddy. Come home, Daddy_.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He chanted this way for twenty minutes, thirty minutes, forty minutes, shifting his weightfrom one leg to the other in rhythm with the words, letting his voice get gradually louder.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_Come home, Daddy! Come home, Daddy!_
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He became lost in his frenzy, feeling close to his father like when he still lived at home. He raised his voice a few more decibels and then a few more. He was nearly shouting, then _was_ shouting. _Come home, Daddy! Come home, Daddy!_
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He’d been yelling for several minutes when he was distracted by a ringing sound. He realized it was the telephone inside the house. His heart pounded. _I did it! I reached him!_ He was sure his Daddy was calling to say he was coming home the way he used to. _I did it!_
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He yanked the front door open and raced to the desk in the entry hall. In the darkness, he fumbled for the receiver and pressed it to his face. He could hear crackling at the other end of the line. Breathlessly he spoke into the mouthpiece.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Hello? . . . . . Daddy?”
