# SOME RAIN MUST FALL

Several years ago, my friend Chuck Weidner’s father Dane died suddenly at the age of fifty-eight. Chuck and his father had been best friends, would talk every day. During the reception after Dane’s funeral, Chuck discretely consumed an ungodly amount of vodka, slipped out of the house unnoticed, and sped away at high speed. Within fifteen minutes, he plowed into a eucalyptus tree and died instantly.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I thought of that now as I left the house. My circumstances were not as dire as Chuck’s, but just the same, a disturbing black grief gnawed at my insides. I was on my way to meet my closest friend and confidant Kyle Spangler and wasn’t sure what to expect. Things had soured between us of late. I kept envisioning our relationship dissolving into nothingness, leaving each of us with one less friend in the world. Yes, only one less friend but one less friend can create a vacuum. Just ask Chuck Weidner.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I lived outside of Sacramento, in the sticks really, worked from home, didn’t see a lot of people face-to-face, and seemed to always drift instinctively toward solitude. Kyle’s story was not much different. He was reclusive, intimidated by people and people were intimidated by him, always found life safest and least threatening when independent and alone. Not surprisingly, he was almost always alone.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We would meet at coffee houses, usually twice a month, a different place each time, three or four hours hashing through selected personal snippets, memorable events, and happenings from recent days, sooner or later moving to sports, art, and the perplexities of the human condition. We discussed things there was no one else to tell. It was always freewheeling, relaxed, a time to let go of insecurities, talk about observations, accomplishments, and anything that must be conveyed to someone. One unplanned side effect of the arrangement was that over ten plus years of our friendship, each of us had come to know the other better than anyone else in the world. Kyle, for instance, knew that I, the small, wiry one, was married to Stoddard, lived in a ranch house on an acre of land in West Sacramento, was self-employed, dealt in computers and social networking, the business thriving and evolving, I’d been at it for years, always working out of the house, often complained about being a shut-in; that unlike him, I’d had a rich and colorful history with women, lots of alliances, scandals, escapades, heart breaks, a previous marriage, and Stoddard definitely stunning; my mother lived in LA but my father was dead, had been in the movie industry in Hollywood, something to do with editing, apparently a genius in his field and highly sought-after, part of the Hollywood crowd, hung out with Joan Crawford and Humphrey Bogart and Frank Capra and other Hollywood luminaries of the 40s and 50s, lived with a beautiful black woman but never had kids because he didn’t want interracial children but then when he was around 70, relented, had an affair with a different black woman, of which I was the product; he died when I was 10, I was raised in LA by my mother, still communicated with her. And I always savored the opportunity to get together to share my thoughts and clear my head. All this Kyle knew because little by little, over countless hours of conversation, I had told him everything.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I, on the other hand, knew that Kyle, the massive, lumbering one, always wore a befuddled demeanor, lived alone in a downtown apartment, worked for the state, had never had a legitimate relationship with a woman aside from prostitutes and a single one-night stand with a co-worker he’d become obsessed with to the point she took out a restraining order and he was transferred to another part of the bureaucracy; he’d been in the navy and almost busted for drugs because his superior overheard him telling another sailor about getting high with a hooker but somehow the blood results came back negative; he was frequently angry, hated Sacramento, but also hated Redding where he grew up, resented his father and brother, resented most people he’d ever known, but somehow was a sensitive and insightful person, liked literature and art and analyzed all matters thoughtfully; had vast potential but was his own worst enemy, always undermined himself, had long self-medicated with crack which he bought from prostitutes, and beer too, lots and lots of beer, like two six-packs a whack, though he’d go weeks dry, then fall off the wagon big-time and drink-and-dial, which was quickly apparent because his speech would be no longer halting and deliberate, but smooth and whimsical and he’d start with, “I’ve been drinkin’,” then chuckle to himself and speak boldly and brashly, amused by his own wit; that he often contemplated moving to New York or Florida or LA, but then it never happened and he’d bleakly resume the drudgery he hated; though he made an adequate salary, was not a good money manager, was always in debt, wouldsometimes get out of debt, then slip back into credit card frenzy which he’d pay off in the smallest installments, accruing the highest interest; that he was a talented artist, produced remarkably accomplished oils, water colors, pen and inks, and ceramics, but destroyed many on a lark, only a few remaining, the only real assets he possessed. These things I knew because during countless hours at coffee shops, he had shared every ugly detail.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We hadn’t visited now in two months, canceling or postponing four times. The effortless give and take had turned tense, both of us suspicious and nit-picking. I told myself I was probably being too sensitive here but remained rankled that a long-trusted friend had turned on me, deigned to find fault where there had always been comfort, consensus and trust.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The source of the acrimony can be traced to two months earlier when the two of us went on a day trip to San Francisco to escape the Sacramento humdrum. We’d planned the outing four or five months in advance, then put it off several times for one reason or another until everything was just right. The designated day started early. At seven a.m., Kyle pulled his blue pickup into the long driveway in front of our house, the morning crisp, the house illuminated by a shafting morning sun. I stepped out to his truck.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You ready to do some traveling, cowboy?” I asked.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yeah, I guess,” he said. “Looks like a good day, at least.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“That it does,” I concurred, then climbed into the passenger seat and we were off.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I’m glad we’re finally doing this,” I said as we rumbled west on I-80.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yeah,” he agreed. “It’s easy to let time go by.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Traffic wasn’t bad on I-80, lots of cars but moving okay. We talked along the way and time went by quickly. At the Pleasanton BART stations, there was a long wait to board the train parked train, this being the end-of-the-line turnaround.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Do you think there’s something wrong?” Kyle asked.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Mmm, I don’t know. Maybe just a standard delay. I wouldn’t be worried yet.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Finally, the doors clicked, whooshed open, and the throng on the platform streamed inside. We found a cushioned bench and settled in, taking in the inside of a BART train, now a bit shabby, and surrounded by exotic Bay Area people and public service posters. Kyle eyed a dark-skinned man in a turban sitting across the way, leaned toward me and whispered, “Do you think that guy’s an ISIS operative?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I looked to Kyle without looking at the man. “Something tells me no.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He chuckled.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The train began to move, slowly at first, then picked up speed, then hurtled along, the route alternately sinking underground into the darkness, then rising to the level of the freeway so cars streamed back and forth next to us, then through another tunnel and stopping at another station. We cruised over Oakland houses, factories and old brick buildings with 1930s signage, streets crisscrossing at awkward angles, more freeways, expressways, the bay off in the distance, the naval yards, another tunnel, ears popping, then a fast stop at an underground station, humanity surging onto the train, then whooshed into the trans-bay tube under tons of ocean water, tunnel lights streaking past, then a stop at the Embarcadero Station, then our get-off point, the Montgomery Station.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We erupted onto Market Street, country rubes staggered by the enormity of it all, trying to collect our bearings.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Uh, do you think we could stop and get something to eat?” Kyle asked in his tentative way as we walked up Market Street.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yeah, let’s,” I said.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Still speaking softly, “Do you think we can find a place with no pan handlers at the front door?” He had an aversion to pan handlers.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I shrugged. “I don’t know. We can try.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After a few blocks, we found a place with no panhandlers at the front door, went in, ate burritos, then walked again.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We had planned to take a cable car up Powell but at the turnaround, a line of tourists snaked halfway down the block, so we trudged up Powell, immersing into a kaleidoscope of people, sights and sounds: honking horns, beautiful women, dazed sightseers, impatient businessmen, old-world Chinese, new-world Japanese, elderly people, flamboyant queens, so much color and commotion that we were both overwhelmed. At O’Farrell, we stopped and leaned against a picture window. Each time the traffic light changed, a throng of every race, nationality, culture, and language would move past, countless people in a hurry.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Powell began climbing more steeply and reached Union Square, a flat, open city block surrounded by tall, blue-glass buildings. There was a colorful Korean celebration of some sort, a stage, dancers in blue, yellow and purple gyrating to whiney, steel-guitar sounds and thudding drums. Speeches echoed over a PA system in English and Korean, then more dancing, olive-skinned, black-haired Asians everywhere, tents around the perimeter selling cell phones, health foods, skin lotions, and anything you could think of.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Is this some sort of religious ceremony?” Kyle asked.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I shrugged. “I don’t know but it’s really spectacular.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He was eyeing the dancers. “Imagine how many years it would take to learn all those intricate steps, and with such precision.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yeah. Amazing,” I agreed.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We continued up Powell, then turned right at Bush. When that street crossed a precipitous bridge, we had a bird’s-eye view of a street far below. We realized it was Stockton heading through a tunnel beneath us, yet existed on top of the hill too, the same street running through the tunnel and over it at the same time, a unique city-built-on-a-mountain oddity. I spotted a familiar sight below.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Ahh, Starbuck’s,” I said dreamily.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kyle’s face sobered. “I guess you want to go there.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Well, yeah.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It was a small place and crammed with humanity, one impromptu line to order, another for pick up, everyone focused on their phones or companions, everyone in mid-conversation. Miraculously, we found a tiny table near the front
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As we relaxed, an attractive young woman in a white sweater with perky, bouncy breasts stood nearby doctoring her drink. She looked thirty-something, straight black hair cut neatly across her forehead. I saw Kyle assessing her. Then as she left, his eyes followed her out the door and down the street.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He turned back to me. “Boy!”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I assessed him. “You liked that, huh?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Boy oh boy.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A bright red convertible pulled up just outside the window. Two women, one a Marilyn Monroe clone with porcelain skin and a clingy red dress, the other an older woman with a weary expression and thick, dark layers of clothing, climbed out and stood on the sidewalk, looking lost. They walked up and down the street several times looking for someone. Then a white van pulled next to their convertible, they conferred with the driver, pulled several suitcases and shopping bags from their car, climbed into the van and it pulled into traffic and disappeared.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We looked at one another.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Are they going to just leave that car there?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We marveled over this. “It looks like it. I wonder what that’s all about.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I don’t know.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Twenty minutes later, we walked along the lower level of Stockton through the tunnel all the way to Chinatown with its fish markets, odors, and endless commotion, then to Columbus Street, City Lights Books and the bar next door to it, Vesuvius. We had a drink, then headed up Columbus to the TransAmerica Tower and finally Market Street and the Montgomery Street BART station.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Another BART train hurtled us under the bay, then rose back up to daylight and floated over Oakland’s color and geometry.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“What was your favorite part of the day?” Kyle said, breaking the silence.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I looked at him, shielding my eyes from the sun. “I think the magnitude of it all. I feel like I’ve been bombarded with stimuli. I’m kind of numb, but in a good way.” When he didn’t respond, I said, “What about you?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“That woman at Starbuck’s.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I struggled to remember. “The one in the red dress who got out of the convertible?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“No. The one in the white sweater with the bouncing tits.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This amused me. “The one you were watching leave the place?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I guess. I was trying not to be too obvious.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I shrugged. “I don’t think she noticed but I did. You were doing what I’ve done a million times: the old swivel-neck.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He collected his thoughts. “There was just something free and loose about the way she stood there. She was standing near but it didn’t seem to matter to her at all. Our eyes met one time and she made this little smile but wasn’t in the least bit uncomfortable. And then the way she was shaking the sugar into her coffee, almost like she was doing it on purpose, like she was showing off her boobs and her body, like she saw me watching and was almost enjoying it.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I thought about this. “Maybe she was.” Then as the train rocked over Oakland, we fell silent and I mulled over his words.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A week after the San Francisco outing, Kyle made a “been drinkin’” call. In recent months, he had made a conscious effort to reduce his alcoholic intake, this because he’d been busted buying crack from a prostitute and almost lost his state job, then by the grace of god, didn’t, but had to attend a diversion program and was given constant drug tests and not even allowed to drink beer, but when the probation was over, still thought it was a good idea to not fall off the wagon, but then the depression returned and began to drink again. One night after nine beers he climbed into his truck and cruised past the stroll on Stockton Blvd. where he’d been arrested, but at least didn’t go so far as to stop. Still, he was drinking and driving again, and more often now when we he called, I realized he’d “been drinkin’.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This time, after rambling for twenty minutes about the magical, glowing miracles of life, he asked me, a bit ominously, whether I’d felt inclined to intercede that day in San Francisco when the woman in the white sweater with the bouncy boobs was standing there; whether I would have interceded if he’d spoken to her.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At first, I didn’t realize he was asking a question, then when I made no response, he prompted me. “Would you have?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Would I have what?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Would you have said something if I’d spoken to her?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Something like what?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Would you have interceded and tried to head me off so you could get her attention?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You mean divert her away from you so I could talk to her?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yeah.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;What was this about? “I don’t think so.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Are you sure?” He was accusatory, like an angry bear awoken out of hibernation, surly and suspicious. “You don’t think you would have said something?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I was at a loss. “I don’t think so. What would I have said?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I don’t know. Something. Maybe started talking to charm her to divert her away from me.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I squinted into the phone. “I don’t think so. Why would I have done that?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Because you could.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I was suddenly uncomfortable. His dark mood and strong conviction made me wonder if he had somehow tapped into a subliminal reality about me. Or was everything skewed by alcohol and cognitive distortions?
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Kyle, I don’t think I would have said anything. I’m not sure what we’re even talking about here, but if you had talked to her that day, I would have just sat there and minded my own business.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He was quiet for a beat. “I think you would have said something.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This was getting old. “Okay. You think I would have said something. Is that why _you_ didn’t say anything?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Maybe.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“So, what you’re saying is that by my being there with you that day, I screwed things up for you. I ruined your one big chance.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He was unfazed. “Maybe.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I took a deep breath. My anger was rising but I was worried too, not because I feared Kyle but because I feared losing this fragile friendship. I heard myself pleading.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Kyle, I was barely even aware of that woman that day. I wouldn’t have given her a second thought if you hadn’t brought her to my attention. And to tell you the truth, she really didn’t do anything for me. She was very attractive but not my type.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Are you sure?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I was getting impatient. “Yes, I’m sure.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“If she _was_ your type, do you think you would have said something?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I pulled the phone away and glared at it. _What an asshole!_ “Well, I’m not sure what kind of things I was supposed to say but if you’re talking about flirting with her, no. I’m married and don’t need any more confusion in my life.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He was relentless. “You flirted with the woman behind the counter.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I couldn’t believe my ears. He was really pushing it. I had a fleeting give-and-take with an attractive young clerk that day, inter-racial like myself. Guiltily I remembered the rush I’d felt at the time, how hot she was, the seductive smile, the enthusiastic way she responded to me, one of those _if I wasn’t already married_ moments. But then, I _was_ married, and it was fleeting, and quickly forgotten. My only mistake had been revealing it to him.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Kyle, I wasn’t going to pursue her. I’m married. But if you had made a play for that other woman, I’d have just watched and cheered you on.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“And not said anything to screw it up?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Why would I do that?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I don’t know. Maybe just because you could.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I was aware of being at a disadvantage for not being drunk. Still, I was quietly devastated by the accusations, my heart pounding. Finally, I collected myself, took advantage of my sobriety and commandeered the conversation into safer realms: football, baseball, and politics. For a few tense moments, we analyzed the upcoming playoffs, several movies, an obscure band from the 70s, then agreed, hollowly, to get together Saturday.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After hanging up, I briefly savored how clever I’d been to steer him away from his ugly accusations, then fell to earth. What was that about? Yes, he was drunk but why did he think I would want to steal that mystery woman from him? It was all a fantasy, anyway. He would not have gotten anywhere with her but even if somehow they did hit it off, why did he think I would intervene? I know he went to a therapist to deal with his tendency to misinterpret the behaviors and motives of others. Was that it? Was he distorting my motives? He often referred to being the family outcast while growing up, his older brother, the football star, receiving all the love and adoration. Did he carry that over to me, thinking his one loyal friend secretly disrespected him and was willing to betray him?
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We’d understood from day one that we were very different people. Where I always had a comfortable rapport with women, he was awkward and self-conscious. Where I was married and had a string of former girlfriends, he had never experienced so much as a fleeting relationship, never went on a single date other than hookers and the office one-night stand. I wondered, uncomfortably, if I really was flaunting my supposedly superior status, pleased at being the alpha male here. Was that the lynchpin that put me so much at ease with him? Is that what I liked about this relationship, that it was a safe refuge, no threats from this hapless dummkopf? Is that what was irking Kyle?
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Still, our interactions were refreshingly open and free, two guys with similar outlooks sharing their thoughts, guy time to kick around ideas, recent movies, articles, a pet peeve getting under our skin. It was always a time to refocus, recalibrate, and come back to earth. Admittedly, I felt a paternal concern for him, as if I were partially responsible for his well-being. He lived alone and at times struggled so mightily, stumbling through basic situations, what clothes to wear, how to deal with an unpleasant neighbor, even how to file his taxes. Did he resent my condescension when discussing these matters?
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For two weeks, I agonized over what to do. I didn’t want to lose his friendship but as I thought back, he was displaying more and more anger of late. Sometimes by the end of our session, his mood had turned dark and he became sullen and irritable as if he were angry at me. Sometimes it was almost scary. Usually he would apologize later but it was uncomfortable at the time and made me wonder if this friendship was gathering too much baggage.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I texted him suggesting we get together this weekend. The next day I received a cryptic response: _Been going through some things. Think I’ll pass on Saturday._ There was no communication for two weeks. I proposed another meetup that he bailed out on, then a third, also scrubbed. By now, I wasn’t sure what we would even talk about. Then he texted me. _What about coffee? Saturday? Angelo’s?_ I considered the offer for a day, then responded: _Sounds good. See you then._

\#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now the day was here. I was barely aware of the drive into town, oblivious to the horses, sheep, and darting rabbits in my neighborhood, then I was over the river and on the ramp leading into town. I parked, then as I crossed Q Street, could see Kyle standing in line inside. At least he’d shown up.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The place was crowded but there was patio seating outside. When he saw me, he wiped his palm on his pants and extended his hand. We shook as usual, no signs of unease. But Kyle was like that, serene on the surface, the anger simmering quietly below and might erupt any time. We’d see where things stood in a few minutes. We found a table on the front corner of the patio near a jasmine bush and a group of Lilies of the Nile. I yielded to Kyle’s seating preference, allowed him the better vantage point, not wanting, God forbid, to usurp anything from him.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We sat quietly for a while, not saying anything. That was how we did it: relaxed, don’t force it, speak only when something comes to mind.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But my imagination got the best of me. I suspected he was still angry about the girl in San Francisco and waiting for the right moment to lash out. I decided to break the ice first. “So how you been?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This was always a dangerous question, the response usually ranging from “Alright, I guess,” on a good day to, “Oh, I don’t know. Sometimes I just hate this fuckin’ town,” at the other end.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Today, thank God, it was, “Oh, alright, I guess.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I assessed his eyes, weary this morning.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“It’s been a while.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yep,” he said, revealing nothing.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“How was your week?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He shrugged. “Okay.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I was getting tired of one-word answers.“Are you ready for the next question?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He smiled.“Sorry. I guess my mind was drifting. How are you?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I shrugged. “Good. Do we need to talk about anything? Is there still an issue with the San Francisco trip?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He assessed me, confused. “San Francisco?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“About the woman at the Starbucks?About how I was supposedly trying to prevent you from talking to her?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You were?” he said, bewildered.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Somehow this really irked me. After putting me through the ringer, accusing me of grave misdeeds, he suddenly doesn’t remember? Really?
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Well, no, I wasn’t, but you seemed to think I was. Remember our conversation about that?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He seemed genuinely at a loss. “Oh, I guess I might have been upset. I probably let my cognitive distortions do their thing again.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I eased back in my seat. “Well, yeah, maybe. You were pretty angry that night. You kept accusing me of trying to prevent you from talking to that woman at Starbuck’s. You kept asking if I would have tried to break up the conversation and maybe steal her away for myself.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked dumbly to me. “I said that?’
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Yeah.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I guess I just wondered. I wondered about that.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Do you remember how I answered?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Not really.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I said that if you’d started talking to that woman, I’d have been happy for you and just sat back and let you talk. I don’t know why you think I wouldn’t let you do that. I want the best for you.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He shrugged and shook his head helplessly. “I don’t know.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I wasn’t sure where to go now. “You were really pissed when you called. I thought that was why we haven’t been visiting lately.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked tired, bloated, like he had a hangover and hadn’t slept. “Oh, I guess I was just being Kyle.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I digested this. _You mean the obnoxious, asshole guy who gets drunk and hurts others but always feels like the victim?_ But instead, I watched an elderly Asian couple seat themselves at a nearby table, then after a noisy motorcycle roared past, asked how things were going at work.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He cleared his head and sighed heavily, then beginning slowly, recounted various episodes from the past week: A new supervisor had replaced the one who’d gotten a promotion, several new staff transferred into his unit, dealing with an employee with a mysterious disability who was exempted from using his computer even though his job was to use the computer.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“So, what does he do all day?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kyle shifted uneasily. “Oh, I guess he busies himself sorting paperwork and going on job interviews, and he spends a lot of time on his phone.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He told me about a supervisor who had advanced diabetes and heart disease who slept at her desk four to six hours a day but was very knowledgeable about office procedures if you could ever catch her awake.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I remembered her from previous conversations. “She’s still there? Why doesn’t she retire?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I guess she wants to work until she’s sixty-five. She says that if she quits, she’ll die.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Would that be a bad thing?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“It wouldn’t really bother me.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“It sounds like she’s going to die anyway even if she keeps working, like sometime soon.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He told me about two other impossible situations at work and his sense of inadequacy, and the fact everyone else seemed to have a better grasp of office protocols, but also about a successful training manual he’d completed, and his success at arbitrating an explosive conflict between a supervisor and one of her staff.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As he spoke, I let go of my anger and thought, _Man, the guy’s got a lot on his plate._
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At one point, he paused. “You’re probably getting ready to fall asleep.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“No,” I assured him. “Really, no. I’m always interested in hearing about things going on in your life.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He sighed again and sipped his coffee.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Two women sat at a nearby table. Cars crisscrossed the intersection just beyond the patio. A large white dog, his tongue drooping heavily, sat next to a man at another table.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I made a mental note to tell Kyle about a run-in I’d had with John Casas, my most notorious account. But for now, I wouldn’t break his momentum. I savored his detailed descriptions of people and conflicts, envisioning his office even though I’d never been there, and the characters he mentioned even though I’d never met any of them. It was like my own private reality show. I was enjoying this and would let him ramble as long as he wanted.
