# THE ISLA VISTA FISH HEAD

<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_If one were to ask the Devil, “Will people bet on anything?”_
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_The Prince of Darkness would laugh first, eyes dancing, then answer yes, most certainly._
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_If asked a follow-up question, “Would people even bet on whether a guy would smell a book handed to him?”_
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_Lucifer would assess the questioner for several beats, smile smugly, then nod his ugly head._

### \#

Necks craned and heads turned toward Brad Gaston, solidly built, ruddy complexion, nearly white hair, nestled into a wicker chair on the edge of the patio. He had just said, “Who wants to place a bet?” Now he added, “When Jon’l comes back and I give him this book, you watch. He’ll smell it. Who wants to make a little wager?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The group was silent. Carl Azid knew not to bet against Brad. Chaz was not inclined to bet on anything. Billy Blume looked on with amusement. Only Cherie Johnson, sitting across the way, was intrigued.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Why would he smell a book?” she asked. “To make sure it’s not dirty?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“No,” Brad explained. “He just automatically smells anything he holds, especially books.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cherie, fifty-something, smooth-faced, straight blonde hair, had sipped enough Long Island Iced Tea this afternoon to be game. “Okay. Five dollars.” She scooped a bill from her purse and held it up.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The throng of a dozen or so weathered fifty- and sixty-something survivors of the sixties was assembled on chairs, benches, planters, and an old couch behind Brad and Nancy Gaston’s cinder block house on Alta Vista Street in Flagstaff. The back yard was enormously deep, defined primarily by weeds and red northern Arizona silt. Beers, wine, cocktails, and water bottles littered the tables. Everyone leaned into the shade away from the afternoon heat, grateful there were no monsoon rains this afternoon.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“He won’t smell it,” Billy Blume said.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You on?” Brad challenged.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Naw.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“If he normally smells things, why wouldn’t he this time?” someone reasoned.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Another said, “Not in front of everyone. He’d be too self-conscious.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Meanwhile Jon’l, the subject of this discourse, was inside the house using the restroom, oblivious to this conversation about whether or not he’d smell a book. As the group waited for him to return, they tried to resume normal conversation, not wanting to spoil their wager by letting him in on it.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The congregation was inter-related via a network of associations, unions, alliances, and affiliations evolved over fifty years. It began perhaps on Gault Street in Van Nuys, a suburb of Los Angeles, one Saturday morning in the late fifties. Jon’l, still in grade school, came upon a colorful little scene: Tim and Tony Clime who lived across the street were on their driveway teaching a chubby youngster, Brad, the correct way to hit a soccer ball with your fist when playing sock-ball at school. Brad was in first grade, a classmate of Chaz, who lived down the street. The three – Jon’l, Brad and Chaz – would become dedicated comrades, graduate from Birmingham High, then move to Isla Vista and attend UC Santa Barbara. There they aligned with Carl Azid, Max McInerny, Billy Feccia, and Pat Musto, all émigrés from Vista in San Diego County. Then Brad and Carl Azid decided to relocate to Flagstaff and became grade schoolteachers. Over the years, their snarl of friends, colleagues and acquaintances continued to snowball so that now there was a vast and far-reaching network stretching from Van Nuys, Vista, Flagstaff, Kansas City, New York, Tennessee, the network forever growing like a snowball rolling downhill.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Brad’s knowledge of Jon’l’s proclivity to smell things was permanently established by an episode in Isla Vista during the seventies. One afternoon, Jon’l and his girlfriend Ann were perched on chairs on the second-floor landing outside their apartment on Sabado Tarde Street a block from the ocean. They shared a two-bedroom apartment there with Brad, Chaz, Mike Spensko, and Bob Leland while Carl Azid, Billy Feccia and Max McInerney lived across the landing.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It was a typical Isla Vista afternoon, memorable only for being a ordinary, the morning fog gradually giving way to afternoon haze. From their vantage point on the landing, Jon’l and Ann had an unobstructed view of the intersection of Sabado Tarde and Camino Pescadero Streets. Jon’l was moody, having committed the cardinal sin of inserting a woman into the sanctity of his personal life, into the very apartment he shared with his pals. Though he craved the company of a beautiful woman – Ann had big soft brown eyes, white skin, a clear face, and lovely long brunette hair – he also cherished the freedom of his peers. And no doubt he had once again consumed too much coffee and by afternoon fallen into a cantankerous mood.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At one point, the familiar form of Brad Gaston appeared from around the corner riding a small bicycle, making wide, lazy loops. Whose bike was anyone’s guess. It was not his. All his bikes had already been stolen or broken one way or another. This bike, an old, small, repainted wreck, was probably available as he left someone’s house down the street, maybe Trigo Road or Del Playa, maybe outside San Nicolas Hall on campus.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Hey!” Jon’l called.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“What’s going on,” Brad returned in a monotone.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Where’d you get that bike?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Stole it,” he said nonchalantly. Jon’l knew Brad hadn’t stolen the bike. Had he done so, he would have been distracted and preoccupied, so convinced he would be jailed for this sin he would have become profoundly mute. Saying he had stolen it established beyond a doubt that he had not.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l was envious of Brad. Brad was, after all, free as a bird, un-tethered by a girlfriend constantly nearby. So, in this uneasy state, he noticed at his foot a fish head lying inert, its dead eye gazing to the sky. This artifact was no doubt left by Max McInerney. He’d been fishing at Lake Cachuma the day before and brought home six or eight trout. Jon’l saw him cut them up and put them in the freezer.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Reflexively, maybe to impress Ann, maybe in response to Brad looping around so carefree, Jon’l scooped up the stinky fish head and hurled it toward Brad. To his delight, his aim was true. The fish head soared in a majestic arc, then honed directly toward Brad and smacked heavily against his chest.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Brad stopped in the middle of the street straddling the bike and assessed his stained shirt.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You asshole,” he said. “This is a brand new shirt.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l and Ann erupted into laughter but when Jon’l realized Brad’s shirt was not just clean, but a new one he’d never seen before, and that his shoes and pants were clean too like he was planning to go somewhere important, his mirth turned to guilt.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I’m sorry, man. I didn’t think I’d actually hit you.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Brad approached the building, threw the bike against some shrubs and scaled the stairs. Stepping past Ann and Jon’l, his face was solemn.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I’m really sorry, man,” Jon’l pleaded. “I didn’t know that was a new shirt.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Brad disappeared into the apartment. Jon’l and Ann exchanged smiles. “Man, I didn’t think I’d hit him in a million years. I can’t believe he was wearing a new shirt.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just then Max’s pickup truck pulled up to the curb below and he climbed out carrying a bag of groceries. In a minute, he appeared at the top of the stairs, smiling the big cheerful smile that seduced all women in Isla Vista and everywhere else.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“What’s going on?” he asked.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Nothing. What are you doing?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Just getting ready to open a six pack,” he said. Max was always just getting ready to open a six-pack, or a fifth of Vodka, or throw away empties. As he disappeared inside his apartment, Jim Leland stepped from the opposite door where Brad had just disappeared.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“See you guys.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“See you.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jim Leland was on his way to campus, the only serious student in the building.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A half hour later, Brad reappeared, now very subdued. He was cleaned up again.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Man, I’m really sorry,” Jon’l whined pitifully. “I didn’t mean to get your shirt dirty like that.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But Brad was reserved. “It’s okay. I took a shower and feel better. I can wash the shirt and it’ll be fine. Don’t worry about it.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Alright, man,” Jon’l said uneasily, troubled that Brad was taking this so well.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The event was forgotten. The afternoon glided by. Maybe Jon’l went for a run, maybe Ann visited her sister on El Nido. Either way, roommates and neighbors came and went, activity never ceased, Max consumed his beers and started a barbeque on the front yard, and the day moved into night.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l and Ann probably watched TV, maybe sat on the couch talking to Mike Spensko or Chaz. At eleven o’clock when they retired to the bedroom they shared with Brad, they were surprised to find him already in bed. Usually, he was up all hours talking to anyone who would stay up and listen, and if there was no one, he’d watch TV or listen to the radio, or as a last resort, open a book and study. And too, he was usually the first one up in the morning. He required little sleep and was always too impatient to lie in bed when there was so much to do in the world.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l and Ann made their simple preparations. Ann changed into her nightgown in the bathroom while Jon’l loosened his jeans and let them drop to the floor. Then he pulled back the covers from the bed but was startled to smell something decidedly sour. He stopped in his tracks and sniffed the air. The odor was gone. He pondered this for a minute. Why should anything smell so foul in the bedroom? He looked at Ann.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Do you smell anything?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She shrugged. “No.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l stood near the pillows. “I thought I smelled something kind of rank.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now Brad perked up and watched.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Do you smell anything?” Jon’l asked him.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“No,” Brad said.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As Brad watched Jon’l sniff the air, he reflected how amused he was by Jon’l’s remarkably good sense of smell and curious habit of sniffing everything he handled. When he picked up a magazine, he’d smell it. When he picked up a piece of silverware, he’d sniff it. When he walked into a room for the first time, he’d sniff the air.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This proclivity was seared into Brad’s memory by an earlier even eight or nine years before when the two, then in their early teens, had a gardening business in their Van Nuys neighborhood. They had put fliers in mailboxes of the nearby streets and got several lawn mowing jobs. One day at the Borschardt house when Jon’l retrieved some tools from the garage, he saw a plastic container in a corner and wondered if it was gasoline. Removing the top, he sniffed very tentatively. When he didn’t smell anything, he brought it closer and sniffed again. Still nothing. Finally, he pressed his nose inside the top and inhaled mightily.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Without warning, he felt hot burning fumes shoot up his nose. He flung his head back and snorted, trying to expel the fire, then let out a high-pitched howl, dropping to his knees and waving a hand before his face.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Brad entered the garage just then. “What was it?” he asked. “Are you okay?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l jumped up and ran out of the garage, flailing his arms, trying to outrun the noxious odors, his face and eyes bright red.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“What was it?” Brad asked again, becoming concerned. “What was in that bottle?” He couldn’t imagine what could have provoked such a reaction.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Finally Jon’l composed himself. “Whew! I don’t know what it was but it wasn’t gasoline.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They went back into the garage and inspected the bottle. On its side, written in pen on a piece of white tape were the letters NH3.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“That’s ammonia,” Brad stated confidently. “I know that from science class.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After Jon’l collected himself, Brad imitated his reactions, making Jon’l laugh. Jon’l said it felt like hot molten lava rushing up his nose. They relived the event a hundred times that afternoon, laughing harder each time.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now back to Isla Vista, as Jon’l pulled the blankets away from the bed, he was sure he smelled something sour again.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“You guys don’t smell anything?”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They both said no.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l leaned toward the bed, thought he smelled something again, then again it was gone.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“That’s odd.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He moved to the foot of the bed and brought his nose close. Nothing. He knelt and peered under the bed, both at the foot and the head. Again nothing.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“That’s so weird. I keep getting a whiff of something really rank.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He was climbing into bed when he smelled it again. He stood up.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“There it is again!”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He brought his head to the pillow. The odor got stronger, as if it was the pillow itself. With his head nearly touching the pillow, he pulled it away to look under it. Suddenly he was eye to eye, maybe four inches from the very fish head he’d thrown at Brad that afternoon.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He stood up straight, then was distracted by Brad’s rolling laughter.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Shit! You asshole!”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Reflexively he leaped across the bed, barely missing Ann, landed clumsily on Brad, grabbed him in a head lock and ripped him out of bed. But unfortunately, rather than gain an advantage, he only pulled Brad, who outweighed him by 70 pounds, on top of him and was trapped, his breath crushed from his lungs by Brad’s throbbing laughter. Desperate for air, he finally shoved Brad off and began laughing too, their mirth so powerful that it vibrated the floorboards, the walls and the foundation and brought their many roommates to their door to see what had happened.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l and Ann didn’t have a spare set of sheets so they removed the dirty ones and slept on the bare mattress. The next morning, Brad was particularly aware of Jon’l smelling everything. He saw him smell the cereal bowl and the box of corn flakes, then the newspaper. Brad wondered if the fish incident had spurred Jon’l’s olfactory sensitivity or merely his own awareness of it. He smiled to himself. For someone like Jon’l with a sense of smell like his, placing that fish head right in his face was perfect revenge. Perfect!

### \#

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now Jon’l stepped through the sliding door onto the patio in Flagstaff and burrowed back into his spot on the wicker couch between Carl Azid and Chaz. He didn’t notice that the group had become quiet. As he took a swig of his beer, Brad handed him a book.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Jon’l, happy birthday. This is the book I was telling you about, with all the lyrics from every Eric Clapton song ever recorded.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jon’l received the book and assessed it quietly.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Well thank you, Brad. That’s very nice of you.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As he read the cover, he realized all eyes were on him. He looked up. “I feel kind of like a celebrity right now.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There were nervous chuckles as he returned to the book cover.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Man, two hundred songs? He’s as bad as the Beatles.”
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The group remained awkwardly quiet. Jon’l wondered why everyone watched him so intently. After looking over the front cover, he turned to the back side. Then leisurely, almost in slow motion, he opened the book. Everyone held their breath.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just then Ben Jeffries, Brad and Nancy’s neighbor, was sweeping pine needles off his patio in the next yard when he was startled by an eruption of shouts and laughter from the other side of the fence. There were uproarious conversations. Someone shouted, “I knew it!” and someone else yelled, “You owe me five dollars!” As the group carried on, Ben resumed his task. And as he did, Lucifer smiled knowingly.
